FAQs RILEM TC SDM:
DISCLAIMER: No research data will be hosted by RILEM. The goal is to create and later collect metadata files to describe the associated research data. These files are very small regarding space. They can be easily stored by RILEM and the goal is to make them searchable by the community. At the moment, we have no time limit for the metadata files planned. To help this cause and encourage researchers to create metadata files for their research data the RILEM Metadata Compilation Tool was developed (in this FAQ it will be simply referred to as tool). It helps collecting the metadata.
●	What is a metadata file?
A metadata file contains a machine-readable version of the description of the actual research data that is stored in a repository of the researcher's choice. The contained metadata is descriptive, administrative and structural. The metadata file is structured and small in storage size. Therefore, queries can be made against metadata files to quickly identify relevant datasets.
●	Will the research data have a unique identifier like a doi?
We do not host the research data. Nevertheless, the repository of choice, where the researcher puts their research data should provide a unique identifier that must be included in the metadata file that is created by the tool. A guideline how to pick a repository that provides that is planned (to help people who have not used repositories before).
●	Why not just a link to the repository where the research data is?
The goal of the metadata file creation is to increase the discoverability of the associated research data. Researchers working in the creation of databases and modelling are dealing with re-occuring problems regarding the research data they collect from other projects and researchers. Research data is often not available, badly described and dependent on the availability of the original creator. The metadata file enables usage of the research data without direct communication to the creator. The guided process should also be an incentive to publish more research data.
●	Why do you want to cut out the direct communication to the research data creator?
The metadata file will contain a contact to the research data creator or data steward but in many cases direct communication might be no longer possible (e.g. change of organization, retirement, death). To prevent loss of the hard work that was put into the original creation of the research data the metadata file should act as an explanation for re-use of the research data.
●	What is the job of the RILEM Metadata Compilation Tool planned in TC-SDM?
It assists research dataset authors and data curators during the creation of a metadata file. The file is structured in a formalized way so that it could also be done by hand (the concept is comparable to the .cif file for crystal structures) but the tool makes the process more user-friendly, and notify of missing required information or invalid metadata.
●	What can I do with the metadata file when I have created it?
It can be attached to the paper in which the research data that is stored in the chosen repository is analysed and discussed. If the research data was created in the course of a particular RILEM TC the metadata file can be handed to the TC chair and stored on the TC website, or a link to it can be shown on the TC website. 
●	What does RILEM intend to do with the metadata files?
Collect them on the TC websites they belong to. Additionally put them into a searchable database for researchers looking for already existing data to do modelling, that are curating databases etc.
●	How will you be managing the tool? 
The goal is to have the tool on the RILEM Website or linking it to it, there are already some examples how this could be done here: https://www.rilem.net/tools
●	Where will the research data be hosted and would then be cost involved for the users that want to upload research data?
No user uploads research data. RILEM does not host research data. The users collect their own metadata with the tool (for free) which only describes the research data. The upload of the actual research data needs to be on the repository that the user is allowed to use (defined by their university or employer). 
●	Are you creating an ontology?
No, we are not creating or utilizing an ontology. The used descriptions of experiments, materials and data will be done in a way that it allows manual integration into an ontology in the future, but this is not the aim of the TC.
●	Can the tool be modified for more construction materials like e.g. wood?
The underlying concept can be adapted without much work and is designed in a way that allows operation without programming knowledge. It is an intention to go for other materials like wood, earthen materials, bituminous materials etc. in the future.

